# The Open Source Computational Biology Master's

## Welcome
Welcome to Open Source Comp Bio Masters! This repo is meant to be a guide to all those who wish to gain skills in Computational Biology so they can follow their passions in biology, math, and computer science. The idea behind the Open Source Comp Bio Masters is not original, it came after exploring GitHub's repositories for Data Science libraries and stumbling upon the [Open Source Data Science Master's](http://datasciencemasters.org/) repository maintained by [Clare Corthell](https://github.com/clarecorthell). If you're just interested in Data Science alone I couldn't recommend the Open Source Data Science Master's more. It's excellently curated with wonderful categories from the fundamentals of Data Science to Advanced concepts. This repository will in fact share some of the foundations of the OSDSM curriculum as many of the mathematical and computational foundations are the same.

## Aim
One could look at Computational Biology as an applied data science where the domain knowledge is biological phenomena. As we all know biology is an extremely dense base of knoweldge with new information being gathered all the time adding to the collective knowledge through published research. We could of course have many, many repositories for all the various subfields of biology. In this curriculum we look to put biological phenomena in the context of math and computation. We will have a basic introduction to biology in our foundational courses and then when branching into specific skill areas will introduce the necessary concepts that go along with that skill set. My hope here is to provide pathways that led people to find their interests in the various computational biology subspaces and to learn only the skills that meet that interest. All paths will be designed to faciliate *specific* job titles in computational biology. 

At first courses will consist mostly of links to resources where one can learn the topics along the path for either no or low cost. Over time, we will work to provide free materials in each repository, Jupyter Notebooks, that cover a 16 week course with 3 lectures a week, 1 homework a week that consists of problem sets related to the lectures, and 4 projects. All projects will focus on showcasing what you'll learned over the previous 4 weeks in a unique way (No one will have the same work as you). We also look to integrate best practices everywhere possible. This will be most evident in our lessions and in the code itself, where we plan to use the most updated practices for building and maintaining quality code bases. At first all examples will be in Python, the reasoning for this is simple: python is widely used, it supports great open sources packages for everything we need to learn the basic skills, and it's the language the sole developer of Open Source Computational Biology Master's knows. 

**Note one Circulum and Development: Right now there's only a lowly master's student working on this project, he is still learning himself and doesn't claim to know everything about computational biology. This leads to the understanding that there will be mistakes early on and maybe those mistakes will lead better computational biologist to join in and build this curriculum to a solid, accurate, place for anyone to learn computational biology.**
